Food Lecture 2

Activating Schema: Detox and Diets
    Dee Toghs cautions against eating habits in today's world.
        Warning about the way we eat
        Current context

Rhetorical Question
    Why do we suffer from disorders that our ancestors hardly struggled with?
        Obvious answer

Koalas & Tigers
    Would we feed meat to a koala and eucalyptus leaves to a tiger?
        Common understanding of differences between koalas and tigers
        Inconceivable to change their diet
            Leading to main argument about our human diet

Charles Dickens' Victorian Era
    ... 'full of malnourished, overworked children, and adults living short, harsh lives.'
    With that illustration, what kind of lives do we expect them to lead?

Irony: Health
    Expect ... but in reality ...
    Expect                                  Reality
    1.  What is the common assumption?      In reality the Victorians often did not have that manyt illnesses that seem to affect us today.
    2.  Explain WHY                         Because we associate that era with unhealthy diets/did not get to eat well

Explain why = Because
    Explain why humans developed a taste for foods that were 'nutritionally and calorically dense'.

Irony: Caloric Intake
    Expected                                Reality
    1. What is the common assumption?       In the past, they consumed a lot of calories, yet not that many Victorians were fat.
                                            We consume far fewer calories, yet we get fat. Caloric intake doesn't seem to correspond to fat.

What does the author mean '...'
    What is the author implying about the ill and obese when their existence 'raids national reserves'?
        What does the author mean to say
        What is the author implying about
        What does the author

Raid national reserves
    The author implies that these people:
        do not deserve

What part do WE play?
    Are individuals really powerless?
    How far can we be held responsible?
        Knowledge?
        Ability?
    Choosing to give up control to the external stakeholders, expecting them to care for our diets?
    Do all individuals

FOOD: animal farming
    Consider
        What? How? Who, when, where?
        Moral/Ethical issues
        Are there solutions/alternatives?

Should we care about how animals are bred for food?
    Yes                         No
    Sanctity of life
        animals are living creatures too
    All living creatures deserve to live a life free of suffering and exploitation
    Religious views
    Cost of packing animals closely together
        disease pollution
    Cost of ensuring the viabiltiy of farm animals
        antibiotic abuse, leading to evolved bacteria stronger than ever
    Cost of acceleration the growth rates of animals
        use of growth hormones >> unknown effect on consumers
    Cost of selective breeding & concentrated feed
        >> animals that are in poor conditions

    Ghandi
        'The greatness of a country can be judged by the way its animals are treated.'

Alternatives:
    impossible food
    lab grown meat
    insect
