Topic: Change, Uncertainty, Continuity
	Many changes can be exciting and positive.

Give the meaning of 
	- volatile: unstable, unsteady
	- uncertain:
	- complex
	- ambiguous

Change:
	External environment: affects our lifestyle, way of life
	Internal: our attitude, mindset, traits and qualities
		==> leads to growth

Observed change in the economic landscape:
	- used to be long-term employment
	- now contractual basis: younger employees

Why do we have a preoccupation with changes in the external environment?
	Changes in the political, economic and technological environment critically affect our SURVIVAL.

We (Singapore) continually have an existential crisis.

We need to be able to ride on,
adapt to and even execute change to better survive.

The advent of technology and globalisation in the 21st century are the twin engines that fuel the fast speed and wide and deep impact of change,
hence a VUCA world today.


Why does Alan Maisse start his introduction by quoting the poet...
	To introduce the topic by referring to work from significant figures or personalities
	To arrest the readers' attention
	To trigger readers to think about the topic of uncertainty

	who can guarantee ==> there is no assurance
	2 and 2 are not 5 ==>

Full explanation:
	There is no assurance that our established laws and principles will always work or be accepted

The sun rises in the east

Technology impacts us in 2 ways:
	accelerate the pace of change in the way we live our lives
	and the possibilities open to us

Suggested paraphrase:
	quicken / hasten the speed of change
	in our lifestyle and habits
	and introducing new options / prospects to us


Ethics --> moral guidance that advise us to live our lives the 'right' way...
	but a matter of choice --> but optional//

Crimes are wrongdoings or misconducts that are legal offences.

The so-called 'alternative lifestyle' is not new.
The author highlighted it in the mid-90.

Alternative lifestyle tends to be frowned upon, or
does not get the approval of
	conservative members of society
	members of religious groups
	religion
	politicians who pander to the views of conservative people

The swinging 60!
The turbulent 60!!
The colourful, roaring 60!!!

Civil rights movement.

Many Americans deemed the dark days

Paragraph 3 focuses on economic uncertainty:
	freelance, short-term contract basis
	changes in technology

The rise of the gig industry benefits a cross section of workers:
	self-employed service providers
	IT-savvy employees who work at the back end
	app development...

Repetitive work of a mechanical nature is likely to

Employment for life, once an entrenched culture in Japan,
is no longer the practice.

We used to look to Japanese work culture and philosophy to improve work processes in Singapore
	productivity initiatives (Ask your parents about Work improvement Scheme)

Today, the rise of the gig and IT industry 
	there are demands for employees with IT skills:
		coding, data analysis, AI development, software solutions, Big Data related services ...
		
	Customers of particular industries suddenly suffer catastrophes:
		many customers in domestic and international markets affected by Covid-19 pandemic.
		eg	The lack of 
	Competitors outstrip them in production
		eg	oil production
			cheap generic brands copying the latest electronic or technological gadgets developed and launched by market leaders

End of Lecture
